wap that prompts the user to enter a number , if the number is 0 or positive , print it otherwise raise an exception

q2 wap which infinites prints natural numbers , raise the stop iteration exception after displaying first 20 numbers to exit from the program

create a display function policy . wap that validates the name and age taken from the user email id to determine whether a  person can cast a vote or not.



pattern that contains

one uppercase letter followed by three upper case letters

Write down a pattern word containing z.

A word containing z not starting 

To match astring that contains numbers , uppercase , lowercase , numbers and underscores using search function

A string stating with 5x





To call a parent constructor within the child class constructor we can use parent name , __init__ , super keyword

Q-->>Taking person as the base class having name and age attribute . Make two functions base and init . Teacher is derived class of the base attributes- experience and research area init and display ..student derived form base attributes courses  and marks functions init and dsiplay . 
Teacher and student objects and display the data for the same.







Base 1 will be printed

The output of the above program is base 1 class . Since there is no init function inthe  derived class . The init of the first base is always is called. If the sequence is base eeqfqfwewf
Since there is no super.init class in the constructor of the base class 

Q-->> Write a class point having two variables x and y . Create a derived class location which has two objects of class  point that is source and destination . Also define a function in a location that will print the distance between the source and destination and another function that prints the reflection of the destination on x axis.

















A website requires the users to input the username and password to register.Write a program which checks the validity of password input by users.
Following criteria is required for checking the password.
   1.) At least one letter between a to z
       At least one number between 0 to 9
       At least one letter between A to Z
       At least one character from $/#/@
       Min length of transaction password is 6 and ,aximum length is 12.
Your program shoul accept a sequence of comma separated passwords and will check them according to above criteria.
A password with satisfied criteria are to be printed in a comma separated manner.








Write a program to print only first two characters of every word of the given string


Print characetrs and pair of a given string



Write a program to extract date from the string "Hello , my name is Shrishti and my date of joining is 11-12-2003 and had an experience of more than 15 years." 




hasattr(object,var-name)

getattr()   --  This function is used to access or get the attribute of the object . If the attr doesnt exist in the objects namespace then exception will be raised.


setattr count variable
delete char variable



build in attributes are associated with every class irrespective of whether they are defined or not.

This attribute gives dictionary containing the classes or objects namespace.

__name__   This returns the name of the class

__module__ This returns the module name where the class is defined.

__basis__  


Write a program that has a class person storing the name and date of birth of a person . The program should subtract the date of birth from the todays date.To findout the whether the person is elegible to vote or not. 




Write a program with class employee that keeps a track of number of employees in the organisation with the help of emp count class variable . Also store their name , designation and salary details.Display the total count of employees and their details.																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																	 






2.If there is a init method in derived class , init of derived overrides the parent init method
3. To call the init method of the parent class use a super call within a derived init method
4. In case of multiple inheritance to call all the init methods of the parent classes, super will be placed  in all inits except the last pair



The diamond problem is not encountered or is handled gracefully in Python. Since the dynamic algorithm C3 and MRO linerise the search order . In left to right ordering such that each class is visited or called only once. Therefore B1 will be called only once for both the copies of init


Containership or complex objects or composition





Inheritance __

Enables a class to inherit from the base class by extending
Derived class may override the functionality of base class
It is a relationship















Enables a class to contain object of different classes as its data members
The container class cannot alter or override the functionality of base class
Has a relationship












q2 -- Write a program that has a class distance with members kms and metres . Derived classes school and office which stores distance of house to school and distnace of house to office and the speed the same


q3 -- Write a program with class bill . The user have option to pay bill either by cgeck or cash. Using check and cash classes. the output shuld be in reqired formar=t 
would you like to pay by check or cash 1/2 ( 1 is for checl payment , 2 is for cash payment)
If the user enters 1 take the entreies of bank no and check no 
Display the bill
If the option is by cash diaplay the bill and total amount only.







